Cluster quick install (#1009)
temporalio/documentation: docs/clusters/quick-install.md

> ---
> id: quick-install
> title: How to quickly install a Temporal Cluster for testing and local development
> sidebar_label: Quick install
> ---
> 
> There are three ways to quickly install and run a Temporal Cluster:

Author: ```suggestion
---
id: quick-install
title: How to quickly install a Temporal Cluster for testing and local development
sidebar_label: Quick install
description: There are four ways to quickly install and run a Temporal Cluster.
---

There are four ways to quickly install and run a Temporal Cluster:
```

---
id: quick-install
title: How to quickly install a Temporal Cluster for testing and local development
sidebar_label: Quick install
description: There are four ways to quickly install and run a Temporal Cluster.
---

There are four ways to quickly install and run a Temporal Cluster:

- [Docker](#docker): Using Docker Compose makes it easy to develop your Temporal Application locally.

> - [Render](#render): Our [temporalio/docker-compose](https://github.com/temporalio/docker-compose) experience has been translated to Render's Blueprint format for a an alternative cloud connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Render](#render): Our [temporalio/docker-compose](https://github.com/temporalio/docker-compose) experience has been translated to Render's Blueprint format for an alternative cloud connection.
```

> - [Helm Charts](#helm-charts): Deploying a Cluster to [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) is an easy way to test the system and develop Temporal Applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Helm charts](#helm-charts): Deploying a Cluster to [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) is an easy way to test the system and develop Temporal Applications.
```

- [Gitpod](#gitpod): One-click deployments are available for Go and TypeScript.

**We do not recommend using any of these methods in a [full (production) environment](/docs/server/production-deployment).**

> ### Helm Charts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Helm charts
```

> Use [Temporal Helm Charts](https://github.com/temporalio/helm-charts) to deploy the Temporal Server to a [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use [Temporal Helm charts](https://github.com/temporalio/helm-charts) to deploy the Temporal Server to a [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) cluster.
```

Deploying the Temporal Cluster with Helm is not recommended for a production environment, but it is a great way to test the system while developing Workflows.

### Docker Compose

> Use Docker Compose and Temporal Cluster Docker Images to quickly install and run a Temporal Cluster locally while developing Workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use Docker Compose and Temporal Cluster Docker images to quickly install and run a Temporal Cluster locally while developing Workflows.
```
Lowercase "images" in "Docker images" per https://docs.docker.com/glossary/#image.

You must have [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install) installed.

Then clone the [temporalio/docker-compose](https://github.com/temporalio/docker-compose) repository and run `docker-compose up` from the root of that repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/temporalio/docker-compose.git
cd  docker-compose
docker-compose up
```

> When the Temporal Cluster is running the Temporal Web UI becomes available in your browser: [localhost:8088](http://localhost:8088/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the Temporal Cluster is running, the Temporal Web UI becomes available in your browser: [localhost:8088](http://localhost:8088/)
```

The preceding steps start and run a Temporal Cluster using a default configuration.

> To try other configurations (different dependencies and databases), or to try a custom Docker Image follow the [temporalio/docker-compose README](https://github.com/temporalio/docker-compose/blob/main/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To try other configurations (different dependencies and databases), or to try a custom Docker image, follow the [temporalio/docker-compose README](https://github.com/temporalio/docker-compose/blob/main/README.md).
```

### Render

> [temporal-render-simple](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal-render-simple) translates our docker-compose to Render - using the [Auto-Setup Docker image](https://docs.temporal.io/blog/auto-setup).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[temporal-render-simple](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal-render-simple) translates our docker-compose to Render by using the [Auto-Setup Docker image](https://docs.temporal.io/blog/auto-setup).
```

> This is not recommended for production, as all 4 Temporal internal services (Frontend, Matching, History, and Worker) are being run out of one process, but the benefit is that we get one click deploys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do not recommend using this technique for production because all four Temporal internal services (Frontend, Matching, History, and Worker) are run in one process, but the benefit is one-click deployments.
```

[![Deploy to Render](https://render.com/images/deploy-to-render-button.svg)](https://render.com/deploy?repo=https://github.com/temporalio/temporal-render-simple)

### Gitpod

You can run a Temporal Cluster and develop Temporal Applications in your browser using [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/).

One-click deployments are available for the [temporalio/samples-go](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go) repo and the [temporalio/samples-typescript](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-typescript) repo.

> A one-click deployment starts a Temporal Cluster using a Temporal Cluster Docker Image, starts a Worker Process, and starts one of the application's sample Workflows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A one-click deployment starts a Temporal Cluster using a Temporal Cluster Docker image, starts a Worker Process, and starts one of the application's sample Workflows.
```

It can take up to a full minute for the one-click deployments to get fully up and running.

> Once it is up and running, you can customize the application samples.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When it is running, you can customize the application samples.
```

Then clone the [temporalio/docker-compose](https://github.com/temporalio/docker-compose) repository and run `docker-compose up` from the root of that repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/temporalio/docker-compose.git
cd  docker-compose
docker-compose up
```

When the Temporal Cluster is running the Temporal Web UI becomes available in your browser: [localhost:8088](http://localhost:8088/)

The preceding steps start and run a Temporal Cluster using a default configuration.
To try other configurations (different dependencies and databases), or to try a custom Docker Image follow the [temporalio/docker-compose README](https://github.com/temporalio/docker-compose/blob/main/README.md).

### Render

[temporal-render-simple](https://github.com/temporalio/temporal-render-simple) translates our docker-compose to Render - using the [Auto-Setup Docker image](https://docs.temporal.io/blog/auto-setup).
This is not recommended for production, as all 4 Temporal internal services (Frontend, Matching, History, and Worker) are being run out of one process, but the benefit is that we get one click deploys.

> <<<<<<< HEAD
> <a href="https://render.com/deploy?repo=https://github.com/temporalio/temporal-render-simple">
> <img src="https://render.com/images/deploy-to-render-button.svg" alt="Deploy to Render">
> </a>
> =======
> [![Deploy to Render](https://render.com/images/deploy-to-render-button.svg)](https://render.com/deploy)
> 
> ### Gitpod
> 
> You can run a Temporal Cluster and develop Temporal Applications in your browser using [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/).
> 
> One-click deployments are available for the [temporalio/samples-go](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go) repo and the [temporalio/samples-typescript](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-typescript) repo.
> 
> A one-click deployment starts a Temporal Cluster using a Temporal Cluster Docker Image, starts a Worker Process, and starts one of the application's sample Workflows.
> 
> It can take up to a full minute for the one-click deployments to get fully up and running.
> Once it is up and running, you can customize the application samples.
> 
> > > > > > > > 7ee09c6 (rm duplicate pages, update links, add gitpod)

Author: ```suggestion
<a href="https://render.com/deploy?repo=https://github.com/temporalio/temporal-render-simple">
<img src="https://render.com/images/deploy-to-render-button.svg" alt="Deploy to Render">
</a>
[![Deploy to Render](https://render.com/images/deploy-to-render-button.svg)](https://render.com/deploy)

### Gitpod

You can run a Temporal Cluster and develop Temporal Applications in your browser using [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/).

One-click deployments are available for the [temporalio/samples-go](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-go) repo and the [temporalio/samples-typescript](https://github.com/temporalio/samples-typescript) repo.

A one-click deployment starts a Temporal Cluster using a Temporal Cluster Docker Image, starts a Worker Process, and starts one of the application's sample Workflows.

It can take up to a full minute for the one-click deployments to get fully up and running.
Once it is up and running, you can customize the application samples.
```
